hey what's up everybody and welcome to
this episode of learning from the pros
joining me today is Chris conowal and
he's going to be sharing his top 10 tips
on making your ads work outside of the
ad platforms welcome Chris awesome
thanks for having me Sylvio appreciate
it I'm pumped to dive in um we recently
connected you are a student of AD
conversion and one of the things that
excites me so much about act conversion
is like how much talent is in the
academy and I was like in spired where
I'm like okay I want to meet these
people that I don't know uh like these
hidden gems like yourself so I'm really
excited to hear your top 10 tips on
making ads work outside of the ad
platform because this is such a huge
miss most people when they're I know I'm
guilty about this especially early on in
my career when you're thinking about
improving the effectiveness of your ads
you only think about what data you have
available in front of you and whatever
that platform is reporting so it's going
to be really interesting to see what you
have cooking for us but before you get
into it can you just kind of tell
everybody a little about about yourself
where you're from and uh how did you get
into advertising yeah so I'm from the
Philly area on the east coast and I got
into advertising end of kind of my
college career senior year I had no idea
what I wanted to do which is not great
for a graduating senior um luckily I
found the world of paid media found out
that I really enjoyed it so then Dove
directly into my agency career spent
about about 6 years there um and
recently have gone out on my own to kind
of take my own spin on helping clients
in the paid media World congrats um
appreciate that so that's what I've been
digging deep into and working on over
the past few months that's amazing uh we
will link Chris's socials as well benath
this video and his websites if you want
to work with him definitely check them
out so Chris are you ready to get
started want to kick us off with tip
number one yeah um so tip number one
these are in no order of priority but I
would say lean into the page path report
in ga4 to understand what pages visitors
commonly navigate to before converting I
found that this is really enlightening
especially in the B2B space when it's
rare someone sees one page and converts
so it can often be helpful understand
like oh like people are you know they're
ending up on my landing page but then
90% of people visit my pricing page
before they convert so it's like okay if
I can include pricing information in my
ads on my landing page can I make it
easier for them and capture that extra
couple percentage points so a lot of
insights that are there I know G4 gets a
lot of hate but I found it to be very
useful that's a great tip uh adding on
to that what I've done in the past is I
always recommend people install a tool
like hot jar so you can see session
recordings and then you can see where
they're leaving your landing page and
then what areas they're exploring on
your site and then that can inform
sections that you add on to your landing
page of concerns that you're not
probably addressing right now I haven't
really delved too much into the page
path report so that's a huge nugget that
I definitely want to look into yeah for
sure I think again everyone knows that
the buyer journey is not linear so in
instead of trying to force it to be
allow people to explore and see what
they're exploring around right on tip
number two cool tip number two is use
more than one data source to measure
performance a good place that I like
usually start is in platform metrics
plus G4 again plus CRM data I think this
is even more relevant with the
deprecation of third party cookies not
going to be as responsible to just lean
on in platform metrics so using a
triangulation approach to say like hey
I'm seeing this happen these three
different data sources paints a much
clearer picture of what is actually
going on so again getting out of the ad
platforms using other data sources to
see what what's happening and make
decisions huge it's like in the product
world when you're going to you know like
me with the background and products like
when you work with great product leaders
if you're going to make a recommendation
on a big feature to push ideally you
have at least three supporting data
points to back up that that request so
it's almost like you know the inverse
there like in marketing and advertising
context it's like before making that big
decision of should I increase should I
withdraw should I invest leverage
multiple data points to be able to make
that decision yep and especially now
there will always be gaps in reporting
for probably each of those approaches so
you can kind of fill those in to a
certain extent and at the end of the day
hopefully make your paid media programs
look better I mean not look better than
they are but reveal how impactful they
actually
are right on tip number three for my
third tip related to a point you just
brought up but work with product or
service teams to design a lead magnet
that customers actually want so when
we're talking about B2B especially the
software space people don't really love
ebooks and webinars you know as much as
they used to I know that's a pretty
standard approach I thought everybody
loves that um outside of my own personal
feelings you know the data that I've
seen working with clients reflects this
as well and I don't think it's
necessarily that the ebooks themselves
are not valuable but I'm sure you've
seen it too you know you download one
ebook then you've got 30 sales emails in
the next 2 days you sign up for a
webinar you know you spend 20 minutes
only to realize that it's a sales pitch
or a demo in Disguise and it's like this
is just frustrating I feel deceived so
you know it only takes that to happen
one or two times on the buyer side to
ruin it for the buyer and regardless of
companies having good intentions and not
leaning into those practices it's not
going to help so developing an offer
lead magnet that customers actually want
can be really powerful and I found that
flipping the risk reward ratio on its
head in favor of prospects is what I've
seen be successful so instead of like
hey here's an ebook that you may get
something out of you may not get
something out of a demo um where the
company gets the lead information you
know that can bombard you it's like hey
here's a resource here's a workshop
whatever where you can leave this
interaction and immediately improve your
situation sure company might get your
email or whatever it is um but it's
worth it because you can walk away with
like hey here's steps 1 2 3 that I'm
going to use and be better tomorrow than
I am today I I'm selfishly asking this
question um when so lead magnet you're
giving away some sort of valuable piece
of content right in exchange for
somebody to opt in often times in B2B
like to your point around like ebooks
and and guides do you see these lead
magnets being effective in terms of like
actually creating pipeline or or or I
guess what's been your experience when
you do tailor this in the right way yeah
so I think a key point that I want to
hit on there is you mentioned content
and transparently again within me kind
of coming to this realization over the
past I would say two to three months I
found that content very rarely converts
to pipeline it's probably like under 5%
and again depends on the content as you
add a bunch of different touch points we
can get into that Nuance later um but in
terms of like one to one lead magnet to
pipeline I found that meetings is a lot
more powerful so it's like structuring a
meeting that is not a sales pitch so
instead of saying like hey do you want
to get on on the phone and talk about
this thing I'm trying to sell you it's
hey do you want to get on the phone I'll
solve these three problems for you and
like that's that so again it's not a p
disguise it's like let me actually solve
problems for you and you're not going to
solve everything because that's kind of
like the upsell but again a prospect can
enter that meeting or that interaction
actually become better than they were
before and be like oh there is no hidden
agenda I can now go back to my team my
business you know make improvements and
then ideally it's like when they see
that that is only part of the picture
they go back to the business to say Hey
you helped me before now I want to dive
deeper in with you um and that's where
I've seen across clients that we've seen
success cuz that face to face piece um
and again in like a 30 minute call you
can provide a lot more value than an
ebook that is not as nuanced as an
individual
prospects problems or situation may be
that's a writer Downer how do you
develop how do you design a meeting
experience where your prospects leave
better off than than when they came yeah
for sure you can probably spend you know
a few hours diving into that but I've
seen it
successful awesome so tip number four
cool number four is again on the theme
of customers meet with the sales and
customer success teams to collect
customer research I found it that it's
not always as easier or straightforward
when you're working in like the
freelancer or agency space to get access
to a client's customers right it makes
sense they want to hold on to them for
legal privacy reasons um but the next
best place that I found to get insights
is meeting with sales or customer
success team since they talk to
customers all the time I think in the
marketing world that's relatively
self-explanatory in terms of the value
there but having those direct insights
dramatically impacts how you form
positioning messaging audiences campaign
strategy all that good stuff it's it's
the things you know you should do but
don't like like we were briefly talking
about this before the call recording
exactly 100% good hygiene that you know
you just need send out that meeting
request um and run through
it that's great tip number five tip
number five is to see the product in
action so whether that is software or
even some sort of Service delivery you
know seeing a demo see you know sitting
in on a meeting can go Miles because as
you are trying to develop ad copy or
figure out what you're talking about
when promoting a client's product um
with without actually seeing it kind of
virtually getting your hands on it can
be really difficult and I found that
sitting in those meetings taking the
time to get that context really changes
the way that I can then communicate the
value of the product or service to my
clients prospects and customers so you
yourself seeing the product experiencing
it getting to know how it works so then
y you can then of course better Market
it because you actually understand the
the nuances and the insights right yeah
exactly so I've sat with like um
customer success teams I'm like hey
consider me someone that just onboarded
run me through the platform um or like
hey you know we've got an app that does
XYZ can I get access to the app and I'll
poke around like I'm a customer so yeah
it definitely changes the way that I
look at not only what we're trying to
promote but like oh I'm thinking of a
potential Gap here like have you thought
of that and not always because again
it's a fresh set of eyes kind of like
that beginner's luck phenomena yeah no I
love that that's huge especially the SAS
world where you know you have all these
different teams and they all have their
own roles and responsibilities and it
can be quite Silo depending on the
organization there's a lot of marketers
that are watching this right now and you
know don't take this as like a a slight
or anything just think of as like an
opportunity for growth but where you're
working at a company and you're
marketing a product that you yourself
have never even actually opened or
experienced which is crazy and I and I
understand the sentiment like if you're
know when I used to work in the
maintenance management space and I used
to promote maintenance management
software I not you know what I mean but
I I went through the product and I was
able to see what it looks like the
dashboard get those different sections
is huge if you're not sold on your
product how can you sell someone else
just kind of how I think about it and
when you know like when you break it
down so that's that's a great insight
and I think if you know you were thrown
into the fire and you're on a sales call
and you can't even answer like what is
the product and what does it do then
it's it's going to be very difficult for
you to Market that product totally what
are we tip six yes so continue on the
theme of working outside of the ad
platforms this one has to do with data
but CRM data so getting familiar with
CRM data is very important I would say
three metrics in particular one pipeline
to spend ratio two average time to close
in three average deal size I found that
coming from the agency world one even
getting CRM access was pretty uncommon
and as I've gone out my own it makes a
world of difference in terms of the
context you can have not only in again
creating relevant campaigns but then
being able to speak to clients using the
same language that they use I'm sure you
know as you know very well as does your
audience that just saying hey we had 20
conversions this month often times means
nothing to a business versus like hey we
built pipeline we did so with x amount
of spend we're projecting it to close in
this many days weeks months and that's
what our estimated Revenue will be just
changes one the conversations they move
a lot quicker I found because instead of
you saying like hey we had 20
conversions it's like okay well now we
have to translate that take a few
minutes to do that um so conversations
move more quickly but then clients can
also see you as more a strategic partner
where it's like oh they get how my
business works and how I make money and
what it takes to get to our goals so
again a process that like I'm still
always evolving in learning having
conversations with my clients around
like how do they qualify what generates
pipeline like how can we estimate these
things but once you have that down it
becomes a really powerful tool in
communication critical critical if
you're hiring an agency or a freelancer
to run your ads and they are not asking
for some way to get insight into the
data of your CRM that is a red flag
ladies and gentlemen and and you need to
look the other way uh that that is
critical you know you could have the
greatest Advertiser of all time in your
account you know the the Yoda of ads if
you will in your account managing your
campaigns and if they're not able to tie
that connect like all that activity back
to revenue they cannot help you uh it it
is so imperative so I love that you
brought that out yeah are we on tip
seven yes and I think this all right
into um a bit of like the CRM and other
teams aspect is get regular insights
from the sales team specifically what
they're doing on a communication
perspective whether they're doing
emailing cold calling Etc as well as
messaging because I've seen um in my own
experience as well as you know just
doing research that often times
marketing and sales can operate in silos
of like they're both going to Market but
they're doing different things in slight
variations so one aligning the two is an
ideal world but even if you are running
on your own tracks having like a monthly
quarterly connect or even just download
from your main point of contact of like
hey what has the sales team been up to
like these are the insights that they're
seeing you know these are the channels
that are working for them these are the
talking points that seem to really
resonate well with customers and time
the last tip back to this one like even
diving into CRM sales notes is great for
little nuggets of like ah that makes
sense now I'm GNA adjust my copy my
landing page my targeting so again all
these outside sources that influence
what you do in the platforms themselves
I love that so much uh just a a quick
added tip there for everyone listening
if you have a large enough list you can
build audiences off of those closed loss
disposition reasons and then run ads to
those different segments of users
assuming the the list size is large
enough uh so for example like at one
company I was at people people would
close loss because of certain features
so product Gap and once we had those new
enhancements to the product we could
create a audience based of people who
Clos loss because of like the Gap in the
product and then run ads with our new
product feature announcement to those
individuals so now they're aware of it
and then our team would outbound to them
to try to restart that that deal yeah
see never would have known that without
CRM access and insight into the sales
team
damn right that's
right tip number eight cool um so tip
number eight is pivoting away slightly
from the theme of the CRM and working
with other teams and more focused so on
working within your own marketing team
whether that be internally or your
marketing poc's and the tip is to work
with other marketing team members to
build a case study or business case
rather behind the value of awareness
media I think being a like the marketing
world and in the B2B space it is very
intuitive to marketers as to why
building awareness you know if you want
to call it demand gen whatever um is
valuable but not every CEO or CFO
understands the value of that and
rightfully so because they're not
marketers so using data to build a case
around hey if we can promote these
different pieces of thought leadership
generate an audience of 100,000 people
we then have plans to retarget them in
this way using our estimated click th
conversion rates that Maps back to X and
pipeline Y and revenue so like here is
the value all the way up the funnel of
awareness um is really important because
again people will always get pushed back
on that like what do you mean we're
spending money and the goal isn't to
generate Revenue adding the data behind
it could be really powerful that's
that's everything Chris I love that
you're touching on this one practice IAL
tip like adding on to that in my
experience I had this one client I'm
just thinking about what you're saying
I'm getting flashbacks uh they I was
mentioning to them like hey we need to
create awareness in the market and they
you know they were much more Enterprise
you know they we wanted to launch a
proper ABM strategy and um anywh who
with them one of the things that I did
that was helpful to get Buy in in terms
of making that case around hey why we
need to build our retargeting audiences
further was looking at the performance
of our existing remarketing campaigns
and comparing them to our our cold
prospecting ones and showing them hey
look do you see if somebody's already
familiar with us we're getting this
return on uh you know click through
rates in terms of Engagement uh and
direct conversions Etc and that's a good
way and easy way for you to to be able
to get more buying if you're dealing
with small marketing audiences and you
logically know as the marketer hey
probably makes more sense we get more
people aware of us so they're in this
right yeah and I think um another quick
example there is that's really good to
hit on like when you have the data but
when you're working with a company who
is just starting out and has a new
marketing program maybe doesn't even
have the site traffic to run remarketing
yet looking at again like G4 your CRM
and seeing where your leads are being
attributed from chances are you'll see a
very large portion tributed from direct
traffic by default that means they had
to have heard of you from somewhere else
so in order to even get those direct
traffic leads you need to do something
elsewhere that's a great that's a great
Point man I hope you guys are enjoying
all of the the fire
tips all right let's go on to tip number
nine yep uh so this one is incorporate
leading indicators as a part of what
success looks like similar what we just
chatted through B2B campaigns don't
always convert right away and sometimes
they're not intended to so especially
for those businesses that have a much
longer sales cycle you know months even
in some cases um map out what those
leading indicators look like because
it's going to be difficult to pitch
getting budget to run a campaign and
basically saying we're going to sit on
our hands for 6 months until we know
what happened so building in those
leading indicators of like hey
engagement should look like this site
traffic should look like this lead
volume should look like this lead to mql
SQL Etc should look like this um so that
even after a few weeks you can start
making adjustments to like your creative
and your lead optimization process
things like that um which are all really
helpful can be done in an out of
platforms as well amazing I I actually
one thing that I've done that's
especially when when you're
communicating with people that are not
in this space it's there's a lot of
technical jargon that goes into this
like engagement rate and you know
clickthrough rate and all this to them
they they may or may not understand what
that means so one thing that I've done
that I found works really well is to you
can I mean you can do this in canva it
doesn't have to be complicated but map
out a visualization of a funnel and have
those different steps that you're
mentioning like the engagement rate or
even the clickthrough rate like map it
out in the funnel from the add
impression to what they want Clos one
Revenue so often times these SE Suite
Executives they know the sales funnel
pretty well that's that's their main
core Focus but once you can create a
simple Visual and connect the ad funnel
with the actual sales funnel then they
can see why these metrics matter because
how it allows you to understand like if
they don't do this then they're not
going to go to do this and then they
won't likely do that and ultimately they
will not connect to to revenue and just
creating like a simple little visual has
been a killer for me in the past when I
needed to present these things to uh CET
folks agreed yeah my brain is a giant
spreadsheet basically so that's how I
map everything out um but same concept
and has definitely been effective in
those
conversations right on all right the
final tip tip number 10 so kind of a
summary of a lot of these it is just
practice being patient as we talked
about a few times you know the B2B world
does not move as quickly as some other
Industries you know it's not like you're
spending 100 bucks a day on selling
T-shirts or drink coasters and seeing
all that money come right back it takes
time for people buyers to research make
decisions talk to their teams you know
it's been interesting to again look at
attribution and see like we're getting
traffic but it's direct traffic because
someone clicked on our landing page link
from a Microsoft teams chat so that's
telling me like people are sharing our
you know clients pages in their teams
chat like hey check this out things like
that yeah um so it doesn't happen
overnight build out your measurement
system bake in your leading indicators
but again it's going to take some time
to see those dollar signs at the end
what would you say for I'm just thinking
I'm putting myself in the shoes of
somebody listening to this maybe they're
a getting into paid ads they want to use
it at their company and they don't know
what they don't know right they they're
starting from zero like they're like
okay I need to be patient I get that
this is not a quick fix I need to figure
it out but what would you say is like
I guess how how should they know if
they're headed in the right track and if
it's time to give up so I think running
through the exercise that you and I just
talked about in the previous tip of like
build out your model you know use the
data that you do have available to say
someone sees this ad you know and I
retarget them with this ad what and use
all your metrics bake it out like what
has to happen for you to get to each
stage eventually you'll have this little
model that you can use and your guide
right so it's like hey if at 2 weeks I
need to be at 10,000 site visitors in
order to make the economics of the rest
of my funnel work and at 2 weeks you're
at 5,000 it's like okay what my creative
probably sucks cuz people are not
engaging with it so I need to go fix
that and that's a really good way to use
your leading indicators along with like
your funnel breakdown to say this is my
plan these are how I can use different
data points at each point in the plan to
know when something isn't going the
right way right on right on I I hope you
guys are picking up how often Chris is
talking about data models
kpis if you don't have this you're
gambling you're not investing and the
most successful advertisers they think
like investors and they execute like
scientists right you need to think like
an investor first understand your your
your model your different steps in your
sales process your funnel and then you
need to go go to market and actually
start to execute your campaigns
methodically like a scientist where
you're waiting against the control and
you're trying to understand if I do this
thing will it will it lead towards the
objective that I want and ultimately get
you to where you need to be so I
absolutely love that and I I purposely
asked it because I wanted to reinforce
all of the points that you've made
around the necessity of looking at all
these different data points so that you
can understand uh you know what is it
the force between the the forest or the
trees as the analogy goes yeah exactly
again can't as you said can't stress the
importance of data enough um at one
point in my career took not necessarily
a detour but it'll Adventure into the
data analytics world and has really paid
me dividends ever since just
understanding how data Works how to M it
out and then it helps you dissect like
those little optimizations so bring it
all back to like what we do in platform
it's like okay this according to like
this stage of my breakdown Is Telling Me
Maybe our landing page sucks I need to
work on that this week it's a really
good way to focus your efforts and then
make sure they're impactful versus just
throwing optimizations at the wall
because you saw it on LinkedIn or in an
article 100% totally agree Chris thank
you so much for being here and sharing
your 10 tips with everyone if they want
to connect with you where can they find
you uh they can find me on LinkedIn and
then I've got a Weekly Newsletter which
I guess will be sharing sharing um in
the link somewhere here all right sounds
great thank you so much I hope everybody
got value from this if you're liking
this series this is a brand new series
we're kicking off let us know by
responding to this email or if you're
watching this on LinkedIn drop a comment
down below your feedback is great for us
to be able to uh associate our data
points and understand if this is
resonating and if we should be moving
forward and doing more of this thanks
again for being here Chris awesome
thanks this was fun